Okay, so now let's talk about a new way
of saving on your cost on AWS, which is called Savings Plan.
So Savings Plan are a much simpler way
to look at your infrastructure on AWS.
Instead of reserving instances, you just commit
to spending a certain dollar amount per hour
for the next one or three years.
So it's easier than the rest because you just think
in terms of dollars and you don't think
in terms of specific resource, and types, and so on.
So let me show you the two types
of Savings Plans you have on AWS.
The first one is an EC2 Savings Plan,
and this is going to give you up to 72% discount
compared to On-Demand prices for EC2.
And you're going to commit to the usage
of the individual instance families in a region.
For example, you say, "Hey, I'm willing to spend
$10 per hour for the next three years
on the C5 type of instances."
But regardless of the AZ they're launched in,
regardless of the size, so you can choose a C5.xl
or a C5.4xl, regardless of the operating system,
so Linux or Windows, and regardless of the tenancy
if you want to choose shared or dedicated host.
You can choose, just like reserve instances,
to pay everything upfront, partial upfront, or no upfront.
And, obviously, if you pay everything upfront,
you're going to get a bigger discounts.
And the other types of Savings Plan is even more flexible.
It's called the Compute Savings Plan.
And this one is going to give you up to 66% discounts
compared to On-Demand.
And this is regardless of the family, the region,
the size, the OS, the tenancy, and the compute option.
And what do I mean by compute option?
I mean that it's applicable to EC2 instances,
but also Fargate containers and Lambda functions.
So the Compute Savings Plan is really the most flexible
where you don't really think much
about what this applies to.
You just commit a certain dollar amount per hour,
and you get discounts based on that.
And the last option you have for Savings Plan
is the Machine Learning Savings Plan
for services such as SageMaker.
And how to set up a Savings Plan.
Well, you go into the AWS Cost Explorer console,
and it will suggest to you the type of right Savings Plan
that will work for your current infrastructure.
And you can estimate the pricing
of Savings Plan at this URL.
And so if we go to the Savings Plan website,
we have two kinds of Savings Plans,
this Compute and the Machine Learning Savings Plan.
So for the Compute Savings Plan, we have different ones.
So we have Compute or EC2 Instance Savings Plan.
And here on this UI, you can basically navigate it
so you have for EC2, for Fargate,
for Lambda, or for EC2 Instances.
And then you can modify the region.
So the region, the relocation type you want,
the region you want, the term length, so one or three years,
payment upfront or not, or partial, and so on.
And then it gives you a list of available instances.
For example, if we take an a1.large,
then using a Savings Plan,
we can expect 31% discounts over On-Demand.
So this UI is great to estimate
all your Compute Savings Plan.
And then for Machine Learning, we have something similar.
So they will be added over time,
but I won't probably add it this lecture
because it's not needed.
So, right now, we have the Amazon SageMaker Savings Plan,
which is enough for us to know from an exam perspective.
And we have the region again, the type, and so on.
And then besides here, we can take a look
at the Notebook instances for SageMaker, for example.
And if we do decide to run
ml.t3.large-Notebook for a long time,
then we can expect savings of 28% over On-Demand, okay.
So if you go and type savings plan in your services search,
you go under Cost Explorer,
there is the top feature, which is Savings Plan,
and it takes you to this URL.
And you can have a look at the fact you can purchase
Compute Savings Plan, which is for Fargate,
Lambda, and EC2 instances.
You have EC2 Instances Savings Plan,
just only for EC2 instances.
And then SageMaker Savings Plan,
which is the Machine Learning Savings Plan.
So if you decide to purchase a Savings Plan,
you can choose whatever Savings Plan type we want.
The term commitment, for example, one to three year.
The purchase commitment, so, for example,
I decide to have an hourly cost of $500.
And the payment options, so Partial Upfront,
and this would be a lot of money to front,
so $6 million to say upfront.
Anyways, you would see the Savings Plan upfront cost,
the monthly payment, and the total cost.
And then if you're ready, you just add it to cart
and you would have a Savings Plan for your infrastructure.
So that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.